---
title: Humility and judgement
tags:
  - humility
date: "2011-12-30T03:48:00.000Z"
layout: post
---

Ran across a lovely quote tonight. It expresses well a basic tenet of mine, that
people and groups do everything they do for a reason that grows out of their
beliefs, values, and understanding of the situation.

Nothing has changed me as much as trying to understand others.

> In the matter of reforming things, as distinct from deforming them, there is
one plain and simple principle; a principle which will probably be called a
paradox. There exists in such a case a certain institution or law; let us say,
for the sake of simplicity, a fence or gate erected across a road. The more
modern type of reformer goes gaily up to it and says, "I don't see the use of
this; let us clear it away." To which the more intelligent type of reformer will
do well to answer: "If you don't see the use of it, I certainly won't let you
clear it away. Go away and think. Then, when you can come back and tell me that
you do see the use of it, I may allow you to destroy it."
>
> This paradox rests on the most elementary common sense. The gate or fence did
not grow there. It was not set up by somnambulists who built it in their sleep.
It is highly improbable that it was put there by escaped lunatics who were for
some reason loose in the street. Some person had some reason for thinking it
would be a good thing for somebody. And until we know what the reason was, we
really cannot judge whether the reason was reasonable. It is extremely probable
that we have overlooked some whole aspect of the question, if something set up
by human beings like ourselves seems to be entirely meaningless and mysterious.
There are reformers who get over this difficulty by assuming that all their
fathers were fools; but if that be so, we can only say that folly appears to be
a hereditary disease. But the truth is that nobody has any business to destroy a
social institution until he has really seen it as an historical institution. If
he knows how it arose, and what purposes it was supposed to serve, he may really
be able to say that they were bad purposes, that they have since become bad
purposes, or that they are purposes which are no longer served. But if he simply
stares at the thing as a senseless monstrosity that has somehow sprung up in his
path, it is he and not the traditionalist who is suffering from an illusion.

The article the quote came from is well worth reading as well.
[http://www.janegalt.net/blog/archives/005244.html][0]


[0]: http://www.janegalt.net/blog/archives/005244.html
